<root>﻿TiHE increasing desire on the part of the colored people, to become thoroughly informed respecting the Canadas, and particularly that ipart of the province called Canada West-to learn of the climate, sol and productions, and of the inducements offered generally to emigrants, and to them particularly, since that the passage of the odious Fugitive Slave Law has made a residence in the United States to many of them dangerous in the extreme,-this consideration, and the absence of condensed information accessible to all, is my excuse for offering this tract to the notice of the public. The people areY< a 
strait,-on the one hand, a pro-slavery administration, with its entire controllable force, is bearing upon them vith fatal effect': on the other, the Colonization Society, in the garb of Christianity 4d Philanthropy, is seconding the efforts of the first named power, by bringing into the lists a vast social and immoral influence, thus mak 
ing more effective the agencies employed. Information is n Tropical Africa, the land of promise of the colonizationists, te as she is with the breath of pestilence, a burning sun and fearful nial adies, bids them welcome ;-she feelingly invites to moral and phys ical death, under a volunt&ry escort of their most bitter enemies #t home. Again, many look with dreadful forebodings to the prbb_1àw åity of worse than inquisitorial inhumanity in the Southern States,.-
PREFATORY REMARKS. 
from the operation of the Fugitive Law. Certain that neither a home in Africa, nor in the Southern States, is desirable under present cumstances, inquiry is made respecting Canada. I have endeavored to furnish information to a certain extent, to that end. and believing that more reliance would be placed upon astatement of facts obtained in the country, from reliable sources and from observation, than upon a repetition of current statements made elsewhere, however bonestly made, I determined to visit Canada, and to there collect such infor mation as most persons desire. These pages contain the result of much inquiry-matter obtained both from individuals and from doc uments and papers of unquestionable character in the Province. M. A. S.
A PLEA FOR EMIGRATION, &C. 
BRITISH AMERICA. 
BRITIsU AMERICA, it is well known, is a country equal in extent, at least, to the United States, extending on the -northte the Arctic Ocean, from the Atlantic on the east, to the Pacific on the west, and the southern boundary of which is subject to the inequalities in lati tude of the several Northern States and Territories belonging to the United States government. This vast country includes within -its limits, some of the most beautiful lakes and rivers on the Western Continent. -The climate, in the higher latitudes, is extremely severe, but for a considerable distance north of the settled districts, particular ly in the western part, the climate is healthy anid temperate : epidem ics are not of such frequency as in the United States, owing to a more equable temperature, and local diseases are unknown.- The province claiming especial attention, as presenting features most desirable in a residence, is Canada, divided into East and West; and of these Can ada West is to be preferred. 
THE CANADAS-CLIMATE, ETC. 
Canada East, from geographical position and natural charaateri ties, is not so well suited to a variety of pursuits, as the more western 
part of the province. The surface is generally uneven, and. in many, parts mountainous; its more northern location subjects the inhabitaÈi& to extremely cold, cheerless winters, and short but warm, sunmers. The land is of good quality, èhd vegetation is of rapid growth, but the general healthiness of the country is inferior te some f the other kricts. The.State of Maine presents a fair sample:oß - an
G NOTES OF CANADA WEST. -aa in the general. Population (which  
St. Lawrence, is principally  
I 
confined chiefly  
to the valley  
of  
the  
and  
the Fr c 
contiguous.  
In Canada  
West,  
the  
variation  
from  
a salubrious  
and 
eminegly heal#hy elimate, is nowhere sufficient to cause the least solicitude; on the contrary, exempt from the steady and enfeebling warmth of southern latitudes, and the equally injurious characteristics of polar countries, it is highly conducive to mental and physical en ergy. Persons living in the vicinity of the Great Lakes, and the neighboring districts, say that their winters are much less severe than when, in past years, vast forests covered that region-that very deep snows are less frequent than they were, and that owing to the great body of ice that accumulates in the Lakes, the people living in the States ordering, suffer more severely from the cold than Canadians,- 
-the ic'making more intense the north winds sweeping over it. If these statements admit of a doubt, we well know that many flourish ing towns in Canada are farther south than a large portion of Maine, iew Hampshire, Vermont, New York, Michigan and Oregon, and should, in considering this fact, have the full benefit of geographical position. l I have thought proper to allude to the cold, at first, for the reason that it is the feature in the climate most dwelt upon-the so licitle of friends, ignorant on thisg-gint, and of persons less disinter ested, often appealing to fears havingno foundation whatever, when the facts are fairly set forth. 
The productsof a country make an important item, in all cases in which this question is being considered; so in the present instance. In Cana da we find the vegetation of as rank growth as in the middle and north ern United States. In order to promote a luxuriance in the products 
Soountry equally with another, the conditions necessary to that ust be equal,-if by reference to facts, an approach to similar teana e madle, that part of the subject will be settled for the present. y s March-there are indications of permanent Spring weather, àmd in Jane mndJuly, the summer will compare with the same sea- - aof the line. In January ald February there are always alternating,as is our experience ; but-,rhen the 
es, theheat is intense, and the wth of v
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
•apid, so that whatever deficiency may be attributed to a od, may be fully compensated for in t1e steady and equal rature after the warm season bas fairly set in; though it is late beginning, it is prolonged into what is the autumn with us, and far mers harvest their crops of wheat, hay, &c., at a later perio* thau in the Middle States, generally,-August and September being the months in which hay, wheat, and some other crops are gathered,in. Taking this circumstance in connection with the regularity of the 
seasons, and uniform heat or cold when they have such weathat,th0 superiority of many products, as wheat, fruit, &c., may be aeouuêdi for. I say superiority, because, in its place, I hope to give sucha vi dence as will substantiate the assertion. Annexed is a table setling fdrth the greatest degree of cold and heat,-in the. years uetio.edy. 
as indicated by Fahrenheit's Thermometer, together w*ith tbe-bighea and lowest range indicated in the months of September and Decer ber of 1851, which last has been said to be unusual, (the lowest in twenty years) by the "oldest inhabitant." 
GREATEST DEG. OF HEAT. LOWEST DEG. 0F COLD. 
1840. - - - 82z4' - - - - - 1806' 1841. - - - 9301' - - - - - 60 71 1842. - - - 9110 - -- - - 10 9 1843. - - -. 89 0 - - - - - 90 4 1844. - - - 8608' - - - - 7  1845. - - - 950 - - - - - 4 '- 1846. - - - 9456 - - - .- 160 79 1847. - - - 870 - - - - 9' 
"These are the extreme ranges of cold and heat indicated at the Observatory, on one day during the seasons, but which do uot laid. beyond a few hours ; the mean temperature of the four Menthe summer and four of winter fqr the last eight years have been tively Summer 750 6' Winter 26 0 7', Fahrenheit."* . tion to the usual state of the weather of the last year, a with former periods, the last summer and first autum onths very warm, and. in the month of September indicated s Fa heit,.in the shade, withouteliiting remarks other thana 
* informtion fer Intended Emirants of
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
of weather, at that season, would have in the United States.iIn short, from much coxfversation with persons of many years r I believe that climate opposes no obstacle to emigration, but thatt' the most desirable known in so high a latitude, for emigrants general ly, andicolored people particularly. In other parts of British Ameri ca, as, for instance, Lower Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Britain, thé cold -is more intense, but when we think of the extent of Upper Caiiada, there would be no more reason for ascribing severe cold to the whole, than there would be to class the elimate of the United Statesgwith thatof the torrid zone, because of the great heat in the lower latitudes. In this province the .regularity of the seasons pro mote health in a greater degree than in those countries subject to frequent changes, as- in many of the United States, where cold and warmn-weather alternate in quick succession; and in the upper pro vince espeeially, universal testimony to the healthiness of the climate obtains. 
SOIL,--TIMBER,-CLEARING LANDS. 
'he quality and different kinds of soil must form the second sub ject for consideration, because, in connection with climate, it enters 1argely into all our ideas of comfort and pecuniary independence; again, because sosfar as colored people are interested in the subject of emigration to any country, their welfare, in a pecuniary view, is pro moted by attention to the quality of the soil. Lands out of the Uni ted States, on this continent, should have no local value, if the ques tions of persônal freedom and political rights* were left out of the suibject, but as they are paramount, too much may not be said on this point. 1 mean to be understood, that a description of lands in Mexi teerweld protably be as desirable as lands in Canada, if the idea weW4 imly to get lands and settle thereoi ; but it is important to luiow if by this investigation 'we only agitate, and leave the public 
ir n an unset lèd state, or if a permanent nationality is included in eh ospect of becoming purchasers and settlers. 
The 4aetion, does the soil of Canada offer inducements sufficient we emnigrants ii its favor ? may be answered by
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 9 
one for himself, after having properly weighed the following Persons who have been engaged in agriculture the greater p of their lives,--practical and competent farmers, and judges of the capacity of different soils,-say, that the soil is unsurpassed by 
that of Kentucky and States farther south, and naturally superior to the adjoining northern States. It is not only indicated by the rich, dark and heavy appearançe, and the depth of the soil, which is seldom reached by plows of the greatest capacity, but by the character of 
the products, and the unequalled growth and size of timber on un cleared lands. Wheat, the staple product of the country, averages sixty pounds to the busbel-often actually exceeding that ; fifty-six is the standard weight in the United States; and leaving out Dela ware, that is seldom reached. The forest consists of walnut, hickory, white and burr.oak, basswood, ash, pine, poplar-all of the largest 
ize, and other inferior kinds of wood with which -we are not familiar our northern woods. There is a greater variety in them, and lar ger size, and knowing that the size of vegetables depends mainly upon the quantity of nutriment afforded by the soi, we are led in this instance to infer its superiority. Besides the well known wheat, oats, buckwheat, Indian corn, and other grains, are-raised of good quali ty, and with profit, and more to the acre than is usually obtained in the States, exdept on-the-application of fertilizing materials-a mode not much practised in. Canada hitherto, the, land not having been ex hausted sufficiently to require such appliances to further ita productive. ness. The varieties of soil, are a black loam, sandy loam, clay. and sand, but a black loam is the predominating kind. I speak now of the cultivated diâtricts, and those in process of clearing, as far north as Lord Selkirk's settlement, for the country beyond the present limits of civilization, I do not feel warranted in- speaking,.noo 
give in other than general terms, the testimony of those aequsted with that region. It is said to be equally fertile, but th-produete not so varied, -because; of its more nothern situation. Thetgeneial appearance of the province is undula though there is.muchlIeael country. Numerous and beautiful rivers, and smaller streams,- run 
through the country, in all directions, so that there is no laek of-wa-
10
NOTES 0? CANADA WEST. 
ter power. "The plains," a term applied to level oountry, " generally sandy, and yield regular average and certain crops, out reference to the »seasons."* They are similar to the westèrn praries, but more capital is necessary to eultivate them than for tim ber lands. The advantage of timbered land, to purchasers of nsmall capital, ovèr plains, is considerable. On cultivated, or plain lands, on which timber is thinly scattered, the earliest return for labor spent is deferred to the growth of a cop ; besicles the mode of tillage is different. Not so on the timbered lands ; wood ever meets a ready and cash sale, and more may be realized from firewood than to three tixpes pay the cost of a frm. Wood land will average seventy cords to the acre, eveYry cord of which n be readily disposed of at two and two and a half dollars, cash, in the towns. The regularity of the seasons tends, alse, te increase the farmer's security, so that of all other men, he is least apprehensive of want. "If the fall wheat fais," says the little book referred to, "he replaces it with spring wheat; and our seasons are so peculiar that some crops are always certain to be productive." * * * - Those whose capital invested in it is their own, are sure to increase their means and wealth. * 
* * If a farmer determines te keep out of debt, and be satisfied with whathis farm yields, independence in a few years will be the remsut." The above extracts are intended for the benefit of the emi grants in general,-men of small means, or with no capital,-and show what maybe expected by generallytþe leaistwealthy who set tiein 'a new oeuntry. From the many instances of success under my observation, (particularly of formerly totally, aestitute colored persone;) I firmly believe that with an axe and a little energy, an independent position would result in a short period. The cost of cleariag wild lands, is also an important item ; by that is meant put ting iamd in a state to receive a crop,-it ineludes clearing of trees, fencing, &c. This can be doue at less cost near the settled districts. 
"In moderately timbered" lands, ten dollars the acre is the least for whieh it. can be done,-more remote, the price varies from that to 
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. Il
dollars. Though the prevalent opinion in the province, is, that th*soI is second to none for agricultural, purposes, yet it is hardly possible to statethe actual productiveness of the soil, as the attention has not been given to- farming that the land admits. There are, and must be for a time, few experimental and scientifie farmers, as it is more as a means of present subsistence, than to> test the capacity of different soils, that the farmer labors te procure a crop ; though the conviction is irresistible that indigence and moderatecompetenee must at no distant day, give place te wealth, inteEigence, and their concomitants. 
GRAINS, POTATOES, TURNIPS, &C. 
The accomnpanying table eihibits the average yield to the aere, of the several grains mentioned, in fallow land : 
ÀrCRI.Ls. NO. BUSH. AR3WC.S. No. BUSH. 
Wheat, - - - - 30 Oats, - - - - - 70 Buckwheat, - - - 15 Barley, - - - - - 40 Rye, - - - 35 Indian Corn, · 50 
Other products yielding a profitble- return, and that form a part of the crop in well cultivated farms generally, in the United States, are potatoes-white or Iish and sweet,-carrots, turnips, pumpkins, (several kinds, and the best I ever saw,) squashes and tobacco. These vegetables grow very large, and are not included in what we term garden plants. I have never seen in the large markets of -our 
northern cities, vegetnbles of»the class here mentioned, to equaI them in the general, except the sweet potato. The Irish potato grows much larger, and is in every respect superior ; so of the others. Tobaéeo grows finely, and meets with ready sale at what would be called a, 
high price with u& These artices, I repeat, are of the finest des cri.tion, and have not, of course, the pitgy and stringy characteri tics so generalin the same kind -with us. It is digicult t get tte average yield of such things, except potatoes.and tu>uips, but a fU crop will couvey the ide. 
11 
12 
4 
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. GARDEN VEGETABLES, &C. 
t. 
The most abundant are tomatoes, cucumbers, onions, beets, cé bage and- eauliflower, egg-plants, beans, peas, leeks, celery, lettuce, asparagus, melons, (water-melons and musk-melons,) cantelopes and spinage. There are other vegetables, but they have been mentioned a elsewhere. These articles, excepting water-melons and cantelopes, t are cultivated with as great success, at least, as in the United States, ] andthe specimens generally seen in the gardens and market-places are decidedly superior. 
FRUITS-VINES-BERRIES. 
Canada is emphatically a fruit country. The fruits of New York, Michigan and New.Jersey, have long beenfamous: but if comparison is fairly instituted, pre-eminence will be the award to the Province. Apples grow in abundance, wild and cultivated, from the diminutive crab to the highly flavored bell-flower and pippin ; and pears, plums and cherries, in many varieties. The extent to which fruit is culti vated, and the yield, are incredible. Egg and blue plums are raised with ease, and strawberries, raspberries, grapes, whortleberries, and in fact all of the fruits seen in our markets, are plentiful. Other ideas than those of a barren soil, and scarcity of products, are induced when visiting the market-places of Toronto, Hamilton and other large towns. At Toronto, may be seen one of the best markets in America in every way-the supplies furnished by the farmers of their own agri cultural districts. At the State Fair, held in Detroit, Michigan, 1851, thefirst prizes, for fruits, fowls, and cattle, were awarded to Canada farmers ; so of the Fair held in Western New York during the same year. 
DOMESTIC ANIMALS-FOWLS-GAME. 
Ih the general, the horses are not of that large size found in the Middle and Western States, but are of medium size, particularly those uÏed by theFrench ; yet, occasionally, one may, see large horses among..them, and cattle, sheep, etc., also. The size of cattle seems aot to affect their market value as beef and mutton, it being thought by epicufes to be of the best quality. I speak of the French in this 
'1
NOTES OF CANADA wEsT. 13 
on, because it is well known, they form no inconsiderable part e pplation. Among English, and other farmers, more atten ce n is paid to improving stock-competition is as spiritedly carried nd n as in the States, consequently cattle and horses of the finest kinds, 
ed as to size and repute, are owned by them. The Canadian pony, -with s, them, gives place to the fine English draft and carriage horse, and s, Durham and other kine of celebrity are justly appreciated. The 
ces pride of Canadian farmers, as shown in a fine selection of such ani mals, is not at all less than that of their "American' neighbors : as before said, the highest premiums given, for superior cattle and sheep at Rochester and Detroit, in 1851, were received by Canada farmers. 
k, To understand fully the resources of the Canadas in this pàrticular, n both as to quantity and quality, for labor or other purposes, a view. e, of the well stocked farms, with their swarms of horses, oxen, eows, re sheep and hogs, would well repay a visit to the country, to those skep 
tical on these points, or to see the excellént beef, mutton, Yeal and pork, exposed for sale-unsurpassed any where for quality and abundance. Prices vary as elsewhere, according te demand, but ordinarily they are: 
*Beef, - - 4 and 5 cts. - - per poùnd. Mutton - - 5 " - 
Veal, - - 4 " - - - 1 
Pork, - - 5 and6" - - 
Again, the butter and cheese, derived directly from these animals, must be, and are, superior, from the nature of the pasture and other food eaten; though, from the ciiumstance of recent settlement, means of disposal and abundance, matters in the housewife's depart-, 
ment are not generally so thoroughly conducted.'as lu more populous and elder settled countries, where a competition of tastes and judg ment, in managing these articles and arranging for the market, is freely indulged. The comparative cost of keeping stock is little, the summer pastures affording ample for that season ; in winter, many mark their horseq, and turn~'hem out in the woodlands and open 
*Pries of mest are not uniform, as before said, and owing to the increseddemand p have risen very recently, to the ordinary prie in the States. That, of course, - Zi;l otbothsratehenceorth,butwill be dsteMined gy thsupply
14 NOrES OF CANDA WEsT. 
country, where they never fail of a supply of roots and Numbers are seen in mid-winter, looking as well as those hamed fed. The snows protect the grasses, and from their peculiar length and frequency, animals subsist wellon the matter they are thus en abled to get by removing them, and from the earl'y growth of shrubs in the woods. The farms generally, have chickens, turkeys, geese, and other fowls, in great numbers; and they meet with a ready sale --price-s are-generally for pouitrÿ two shilings and two and six-pence the pair, -when in great plenty ; eggs 10O cents and 12J cents, the doz en, and may be disposed of in any quantity to the traders without leavingthe farm: numerous hucksters go, in all directions through the country to purchase, to sell again in the large cities. In the winter, these articles, in common with vegetables and other commodities, are often sold at a rate that in the United States would be called bigh, the rapidly increasing population making the ordinary supply insuf ficient. Geese uniformly command two shillings ; turkeys one dol 
lar, domesticated or wild. There is an abundance of game, an& turkeys meet with ready sale. Hunting is much the cus of au classes, and ducks, squirrels, (black,) pigeons, deer, ha quails, pheasants, and other game, are brought down in gre nunbers. 'eild animals are not troublesome, though in remote districts, an occasional bear or wolf is seen; foxes also.make depredations at times, but not frequently. 
PRICES OF LAND IN THE COUNTRY-CITY PROPERTY, &C. 
The country in the vicinity of Toronto and te the eastward, being thickly settled, (fartas being advertised "thirty miles onm Yonge street,") the price of property is, of course, very much higjer than in the western districts. City property varies according to location 
two hundred dollars the foot, is the value of lots in good position in Toronto: in the suburbs very fine lots may be had at reasonble rates. Farms, at a few miles distânt, range from thirty to. fifty dol lars the acre-fifty dollars being thought a fair erice for the best quality of land with improrements ; but in the western distriçts, farms aay be bought for one thgusand dollars, superier in every way, te
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 15 
f ethe city of Toronto, that are held at fire thousand. Im ds, near Chatham, London, Hamilton, and other towns bought at prices varying from ten up to one hundred: at a few miles distant, uncleared lands, belonging to Gorvernment, may be had by paying one dellar sixty-two cents, two, and two fifty, according to locality-well timbered and watered, near cultivated faras en the river and lake shore. Thousands of acres, of the very best land in the Province, are now in the market at the above prices, and either in the interior, or well situated as te prospect from the lakes, and near excellent markets. The land is laid out in what are called concessions, these concessions, or blocks-being sub-divided into lots. There is, therefore, a uniforraity of appearanice throughout in the farms, and ne contest about roads en individual property can result-the reads being designed to beneût equaly contiguous prop erty, and under jurisdiction of Governmeat. One hunded acres is the -smalest qiaatity ta be had of Government, but individual holders sel in quantities ta suit purchasers. Large quantities of land are hel by individuals, though at a higher rate generally than that held by Government ; and their titles are said to be often defective. In every respect, the preference should be for purchases of Government -land is cheaper, as well situated, and below a specified number of acres, may net be bought ; a prohibition of advantage to many who wo.nld buy, as there is induced a spirit of enterprise and competitioni and a sense ef responsibility. Too many are now idepedently drag ging along miserably, on the few acres, ten, twenty, or such a mat ter, bought at the high raties of idividal holders, in a country in which the prioes must, foi a long time, require more land in process of culture, te afferd a comfortable support. There is every induce ment to buy,. near er in twns, as well asj the country, as land is cheap, business increasing, with the steady increase of population, n lack of employnent at fair prices, and no comnplexional or other qual ification -in existence. 
LAB01-TRADES. 
In Canada, as in other recently settled couatries, there is much to ,do, and comparatively few for the work. The numerous towns and
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
villages springing up, and the great demand for timber and 1 i tural products, make labor of every kind plenty : all trad 
practiced in the United States, are there patronized by carried on-no man's complexion affecting his business. If a colored man understands his business, he receives the public patronage the same as a white man. He is not obliged to work a little better, and at a lower rate-there is no degraded class to identify him with, therefore every man's work stands or falls according to merit, not as is his color. Builders, and other tradesmen, of different complexions, work together on the same building and in the same shop, with per feet barmony, and often the proprietor of an establishment is colored, and the majority or all of the men employed are white. Businesses that in older communities have ceased to remunerate, yield a large per'centage to the money invested. 
The mineral resources of the Canadas net being developed, to any extent, for fuel wood is generally used, and, a profitable trade in that commodity is carried on; and besides lumber for buildings, the get 
ting out of materials for staves, coopers' stuff, and various purposes, affords steady employment and at fair prices, for cash. This state of things must increase, and assume more importance in Canada mar kets, as the increasing population of the western United States burn and otherwise appropriate their timber. Railroads are in process of 
construction-steamboats now ply betweén Toronto and the several towns on the lakes ; and in process of time, iron and other works will be in operation, it is said, all requiring their quota, and of course keeping up the demand. Boards for home and,foreign markets, are succéssfully zsanufactured, and numerous mill-sites are fast being appropriatedto saw and grist mills. In some sections, colored men ar engaged in saw mills on their own account. At Dawn, a seule ment-on the Suydenham, (of which hereafter,) and at 'other points, this trade is prosecutéd -with profit to them. To ,enumerate the dif ferent occupations in which colored persons are engaged, even in detail, would but fatigue, and would not further the end in view, namely: To set forth the advantage of a residence in a country, in whieh chattel slavery is not tolerated, and prejudice of color has no
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
17
exstence. tever-the adaptation of that country, by climate, soil, haracter, to their physical and political necessities ; and 
y of a residence there over their present position at home. 
It s de, that colored men prosecute all the different trades ; are e store keepers, farmers; clerks, and laborers ; and are not only unmo lested, but sustained and encouraged in any business for which their qualifications and means fit them ; and as the resources of the coun I try develop, new fields of enterprise will be opened to them, and consequently new motives to honorable effort. 
CHURCHES-SCIHOOLS. 
In the large towns and -cities, as in similar communities in other Christian countries, the means for religious instruction are ample. îThere are tostly churches in which all classes and complexions wor ship, and no " negro pew," or other seat for colored persons, espe cially. I was forcibly struck, when at Toronto, with the contrastthe religious community there presented, to our own large body of Ame rican'Christians. In the churches, originally built by the white Ca nadians, the presence of colored persons, promiscuously seated, elicited no comment whatever. They are members, and visitors, and as such have their pews according to their inclination, near the door, or remote, or central, as best suits them. The number ôf colored persons, attending the churches with whites, constitutes a minority, I think. They have their " own churches." That that is the feature in their policy, which is productive of mischief to the entire body, is evident enough ; and'the opinion of the best informed and moSt id fluential among them, in Toronto and the large towns, is decided nU universal. I have heard men of many years residence, and' whb have, in a measure, been moulded by the better sentiment of soeiéty, express deep'sorrow at the course of colored persons, in pertinaciously refusing overtures of religious fellowship from the whites ; and inthe face of all experience to the contrary, erecting Colored Methoist, and Baptist, and other Churches. This opinion obtains -amongs many who, when in the United States, were connected with colored churches. Aside from their caste character, their influence on the 3.. 
18 Os o CANADA WEsr.. 
Moored people is fatal. The characterof the exclusive 
da tends to'perpetuate ignoranoe, both of their true posi subjects, and of the Christian religion in its purity. 
to observe thoughtfully the workings of that incipient ion, the Canadian African Church, of whatever denomtination,) in its present ihperfect state, without seriously regretting that it should have been thought necessary to cal it into existence. In her bosom is nurtured the lbng-standing and rankling prejudices, and hatred against whites, without exception, that had their origin in American oppression, and that should have been left in the country in which they originated- 
'tis that species of animosity that is not bounded by geographical lings, nor suffers discrimination. 
A goodly portion of the people in the western part of the Province, (for there are but few in the eastern,) are enjoying superior religious opportunities, but the majority greatly need, active missionary effort: ftrst, te teach them love to their neighbor ; and. again, te give them an;intelligent and. correct understanding of the Sacred Scripturès. The missionary strength, at presyt, consists of but six preachers 
actiYe and efficient gentlemen, a-of them, and self-sacrificing in the ,ast degree; and several women engaged in teaching, under the samine spipe. , Mach privation suffering, opposition, and sorrow await AbeisibnrY in that field. If it were possible, for him to foresee iwt-i*jn store for him there, a mission to India, or the South Sea mands, rotld be preferable; for, in that case, the sympathy of the n comemunity is enlisted, and his sojourn is iíade as pleasant as psi-.-the people to whom he is sEnt, are either as little childtien, Mdipp4 cenfiding, or out-right savages ; and in that case, de'aly 
nipç, ln this less remote field-almost in speaking distance ygect freza friends, suspicion, abuse, misrepresentation, and a de grding sarveillance, often of serious and abiding eonsequences,. a t . Not directly from the fagitives-those designed prima 4*te o benefitted-rnay assaults be looked for, at first. They pç$- sya ire for the Iight, and incline to cluster around the missionany àgsaiably, There are those who pretend to have been enlightehed, Iraa ermt hear¢ the coimon -good, whose influence and.opera-
NOTES OF CAXADA WEST. 
designedly counteracting his conscientious efforts, 
ely appealing to a common origin and kindred auer 
striking behind, and bringing his character as amission 
onary, and hisoperations, into discredit ia the eyes of a sympathizing Christian co Thisand _nnity. more, awaits those whe maybecaied I - 
to the fiel; Jmb the case is nota hopeless one. Thenativegood hense of he fugitives,.backed by properschools, will eventuaUy developthe reat chazacter of their operations and sacrifices. They au t hir familes,. of ail others, should ha-ve the support of Chrisan,- 
The refugees express a strong desire for inteUectual culture, áàd persons often begin their education at a time of.life wheu man in other countries think they are too old. There are no separate schook: at Toronto and in many other places, as in the churches, the cçlre« people avail themselves of existing schools ; but in the vesteu-cou. 
try, in some sections, there is a tendency to ." exclu"veness." The. colored people of that section petitioned, when the Schoel Law una. under revision, that they might have separaté schools: there were counter petitions by those opposed, and to. satisfy al pardes, twelve freeholders among them, can, by following a prescribed fprm, demand a school for their ehildren ; but if other schools, under patrege Of 
Government, exist, (as .Catholic or Protestant,) they ea eman. admission into them, if they have not one. They are noteeçnpe1ed to have a colored. sehool. -The following is that portion of the Ëchoek, law that directly relates to. them: 
"."And be it enacted, That. it shall be the duty pf the 
Council of any townuship, ad of the Board of Schgo Trte city, -uw or igpcorated village, o thç applicaio a twelve. or more -ident hgada of famiUes, to althoriaea 
roet of oiepzmore separate, schgols for-Presnts, 
liespr por people and, in zuch çase, it shaefs a 
the divisions or pctions efor auch -chool; sad. :sx 
prorlions forthe ho14eng of the first meetiggr thf 
tees of,-each-such separ4e .school or schoo 
fourt seQnof e 1lhis Actfor holding.e frt schpl 
schgae,9tieu.:ä Provi4e%1ways, tha qçl A peh c
NOTES OP CANADA WEST. 
into oþeration at the same time with alterations in schoo shaf be under the same regulations in respect to th whom such school is permitted to be established, as sehdols generally : Provided, secondly, that none but colored people shaR- be allowed -to vote for the election of Trustees of the separate school fortheir children, and none but the partiei petitiosing for the establishment of, or sending children to a separate Protestant or Ro mai: Catholie school, shall vote at the election of Trustees of such schools: Provjded, thirdly, that each separate Protestant, or Roman Catholie, or colored school, shall be entitled to share in the school fund .ccording to the average attendance of pupils attending each such separate school, (the mean attendance of pupils for both sum. mer and winter being taken,) as compared with the average attend aneeof pupils attending the common schools in such city, town, vil lagéor township: Provided, fourthly, that no Protestant separate school shal be allowed in any school division, except when the teaeher of the common school is a Roman Catholic, nor shall any Ro miâ (atholi-separate school be allowed except when the teacher of the"xnmoni school is a Protestant." 
As-before said, the facilities for obtaining a liberal education, are aímp4n the large towns and cities. In Toronto, students of al comnplexions associate together, in the better class shools and colle ges: The perations of missionaries beiñg. chiefly atnong colored, people, they have established several sehools in connettion with heir ae' the y are.open to children without exception. The colored liÙ1a have more of a complèxional character than the pri- *ith'no exception that I have heard of, are open to alh Ôfarliainent above referied to, was designed to afford the "W equablefacilities for instrution toal, anid thàt par ineed withthe vie*'to satisfy them, thogh less 
bodÈf them, than what they asked for. 
othne-instancessettledcin Government lahd l 
mçliet; eleated away and improved it. 1éfriiemjs 
were ourih when they Were obHlged to 
iede, bec'uteeof inabli4y ta purchée
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 21 
ns buying. This cause has; in a measure, retarde& 
eneral information amongst them. 
twenty or more families are often settled near one an other, or interspersed among the French, Duteh, Scotch, Irish and Indians, in the woodland districts : often, English is not spoken. There may notbe an EngJish school, and all revel together in happy ignorance. Nothing but the sound of the axe, and their own crude 
ideas of independence, to iospire them, unless it be an Indian camp tire occasionally. This may be rather an uninviting state of affairs to those living in crowded cities, but it is true there are numerous grown up families, of white and colored, who do not know B. But as uninte 
esting as is the detail, in this particular aspect of these affairs, t signs are encouraging. If they went to labor honestly, i n a 'an semi-barbarous, they ha.ve eut their way out, and are now able to make themselves heard in a demand for religious instructors of the right kind, and schools. Many efficient persons have devoted their time and talents to their instruetion, ;but there has not been nythiùg like an equal number to the work : neither are they oftezt found te have materials to work with. Individuals in the United Sttes ofe send books to those most needy, yet they are usuallyof sueh'wehar acter asto be utterly useless. Ihaveoften thought,iftisreay a bedE 
volent act to send old almanacs, old novels, and ail àamiierefòôbmett books t» them, what good purpose was accomplished, «- even what sort of vanity -was gratified, by emptying the useless «ontents et 4fk libraries on destitute fugitives? It would be inintfybet* t give, it seems, though probably persons sending-théW enly- The case is-aggravated from -the faet:of a ma part e!4e'teeptîen, to learn, atid thirfr waiáf 
Probably:the prþensity to give is gratiffed'iit why ùùt. g,' h e t the . 
tothig* rr  
Ç* ¾ '
22 NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
SETTLEMENTS:-DAWN,- ELGIN,-INSTITUTION,-FU 
Much bas been said of the Canada eolored settleme 
have-been expressed by many, that by encouraging exc ments, the attempt to identify colored men with. degraded men of like color in the States would result, and as a consejuence, estrange ment, suspicion, and distrust would be induced. Such would inevita bly be the result, and will be, shall they determine to have entirely proscriptive settlements. Those in existence, so far as I have been able to get at facts, do not exclude whites from their vicinity ; but that settlements may not be established of that character, is not so certain. Dawn, on the Sùydenham river, Elgin, or King's Settle ment, as it is called, situated about ten miles from Chatham, are settlements in which there are regulations in regard to morals, the purchase of lands, etc., bearing only on the colored people ; but whites are not excluded because of dislike. Whenpurchase was mqade of the lands, many white familes were residents,-at least, lo cations were not selected in which none resided. At first, a few sold out, feariig that'such neighbors might not-be agreeable ; others, and they the majority, concluded to remain, and the result attests their superior judgment. Instead of an increase of vice, prejudice, im providence, laziness, or a lack of energy, that many feared would~ ch'sfcterize tliem, the infrequency of violations of law among so many, is unprecedented ; due attention to moral and intellectual' culture bas been given ; the former prejudices on the part of the ewhites, has givén place to a perfect reciprocity of religions and social in î miti. Schools are patronized equally ; the gospel 
MM aud hospitality is shared alike by aL Thephool fer s t Elgin, is se far superior to the one establiWbed for white et Îhjther~tter was diWsontinued, and, as before sàid, a aend 
d. v$sit in common t1i Presbyterian chureh, there estab-, g affega ;,asbt settlernet iseaceedingly Souishing,sund Seun7t zerts is god, thág owingtsome recent geents, regulatuAss designe&to fsrther.pr ote its lmpoestaee 1eiø made. Land has increased iu value in those settlements. rty that was<eorth - but little, from the superior culture given
NOTES OF CANADA WESZ, 
ons over the method before practiced, and the iù 
s for country homes, is held much higher. Another rth a passing notice, is, that a spirit of competition is eir vicinity. Efforts are now put forth to produce more to the acime, and to have theland and tenements present a tidy appear ance. That others than those designed to be benefitted by the or ganization, should be, is net reasonable, else mixrght persôns, net ren bers of a sociètyjustly claim equal benefits with membçrs. If Irish 
men should subscribe te certat regulations on purchasing lad, neo neighboring landholders ecould rightfully share with themin the rË sult of that organization. ~But prejudice would not be the cause of 
exelston. So it is of those two settlements ; it cannot be :said -of* them, that they are caste institutions, selong as they do not 'express hostility to the whites.; bat the qaestion of their necessity hi prdinises inay be raised, and.often is, by the settfers -in CanadÉià -weI1 asin the States. The "Institution" is a settlementtumder 'th * 
,ectioa of the A. M. E. Church; it contains, at present, two htaditi .acres, and is sold out in ten sere farms, at one .dolulk axd fiftels 
per acte, or one shilling less tïan cost. They has'e-receiitly opened a school, and there is a log mneeting house in an anfinishèd state, aso a burying ground. There are about feftéen familles Mttled on thie land., most of whom havecleared away a few trees, butitis uot aei 
prosperous condition, owing, itis said, te bad maanagemeief a resalt to be loôked for wheu a want of knowledge¼ d Muatutis ihem. This "Institution" bids fair to be onenucleus around W)>ih easte séttiements will esuter in. Canada. 
Thl eugees' ome-is the last of the settleèntt oi 
speak e ow nany >othe'rsre Wo]ntem 
knw, th WI ~heard of at leas two thes T 
signed te-lropriate fifty thoussa pMp s of ina dt 
sIaeey, dy, butat present the agentefiavai, 
eres, situàted about-eightsiie frm*,W 
téit. Theplani to sel-f rsiû etatrenier "fr. 
' ive acres th actua sets,: ti ile. g ingtwntyacres, atthem4 tal eid
'24NOTES 0F CANADA WEST. 
onstitute a fund for school and otier purposes given to pay for the twenty acres, b no pures; a Thiîs, socie tYa-e. u no interest m ai purcaseth ay now be considered in operation, as tb SPelhasd othough, as yet, no one has settled thereon, an il be an fmpfron it, from the extent of the field of operations *will have an imnportant bearing on the cooe pepe h reto settleýd iP, Canada, or who ng 'e colored people who- are now -societye a ad by b n emgrate thither. The friends of the S o n i t y , c t u a e d b b e n v o l e t , f e e l in g s t o - va can oppression and the dious Fut Latoware Sanguine as to the success of the measure, but -t a, anirerste sanguine s o eves aisong those designed to be benefied ; in fact, aH the: objee t sen haee with wit. e a diust 'ioal y stng settlements, holdgoed against the aditioai ona of greater agnitude. known thatIe Fugitive iJ It is We e-ks seuev no tm wkjr-thosefree are alike at ·the risk of being snoth n anda, always free , wil leave the united tates, and 
~ntthat eog atioawfluene Caw been prevais enactedr i es vhowould have remaiàed had th pro-slavery comniies, or where prevaits, they would leave at a 8crifice; avei Canadaestituten, they n 1 Refigeeýs' in consequence, but niay not settle on the wlme: froo the accident of nominal freedom t anualelbor w he n slaves sth, from the disgrace atà ry laor when ormed by Whites, have opporunti 
way, that ol redne ha e not in some sectionstorh 
s ~ ~ ieyb s of tch~ Ider lash beent o create a contemp for Teir hebir fei slaves, and pretty eeetuaHy have iourney to Danada for yiberty has e 4uite, aud« reference to aoanse Pmedes by cPored perso'ns hfree as 
»ti~ ftIe,sOÇiety'Iands à flot Iikely 
italfeids, s looked upon im the 
- ed th- way, of poorfree men,. with hewil o governmnt purchses; 
741 RjIàbe
NOTES OF CANADA WtST. 
neither contemplate large blocks, exclusively, but, as in the rst pure land, wherever found, and in small parcels also. From nature of the many settlements, (as fugitive homes,) en it s all be known for what use it is wanted, individual holders will not sell but for more than the real value, thus embarrassing poor men who would have bought on time, and as an able purchaser from government, the society must have a first choice. The objections in common with other settlements, are : the individual supervision of resident agents, and the premium indirectly offered for good beha vior. "We are free men," say they who advibeate independent effort, "we, as -other subjects, are amenable to British laws ; we wish te observe and appropriate to ourselves, ourselves, whatever of good, there is in the society around us, and by our individual efforts, to at tain to a respectable position, as do the many foreigners who land on the Canada shores, as poor in purse as we were ; and we do not want agents to beg for us." The accompanying are articles in the Con stitution: 
Article 2. The object of this society shall be to obtain permanentv homes for the reïugees in Canada, and to promote their moral, so cial, physical, intellectual, and political elevation. 
Article 11. This society shall not deed lands to any but actual settlers, who are refugees from southern slavery, and who are the owners of no land. 
Article 12. All lands purchased by this society, shall be divided into twenty-five acre lots, or'as near as possible, and at least one-tenth of the purchase price of which shall be paid down by actual-se1ers before possession is given, and the balance to be paid in equal annual instalments. 
Article 13. One-third of all money paid in for land by settlers, shall be used for educational purposes, for the benefit of saidsettlers' children, and the other two-thirds for the purchase of more lands for the same object, while chattel slavery'exists in the United States. BY -LAWs, 
No person shall receive more than five acres of land from this ciety, at less than cost. 
4
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
26
Aride 4. No person shall be allowed to remove antiu ber from 
said rand until they have first made payment thereon. - n These are the articles of most importance, and, as will 
contefnplate more than fifty thousand acres continual purchases, slavery shall cease ; and other terms, as will be seen by Art. 13 of Con., and Art. 4, By-Laws, than most fugitives just from slavery can comply with, (as destitute women with families, old men, and singlè , women,) until after partial familiarity with their adopted country. This, say many colored Canadians, begins not to benefit until a man has proven his ability to act without aid, and is fit for political equal ity byhis own industry, that money will get for him at any time. 
POLITICAL RIGHTS-ELECTION LAW-OATH--CURRENCY. 
There is no legal disèrimination whatever effecting colored emi grants in Canada, nor from any cause whatever are their privileges sought to be abridged. On taking proper measures, the most ample redress can be obtained. The following " abstracts of acts," bearing equally on all, and observed fully by colored men qualified, will give an idea of the measures given them :* 
" The qualifications of voters at municipal elections in townships, are freeholders and householders of the township or ward, entered on the roll for rateable real property, in their own right or that of their wives, as proprietors or tenants, and resident at the time in the township or ward." 
" In towns, freeholders and householders for rateable real property 4 tbtr own names or that of their wives, as proprietors or tenants to the amount of £5 per annum or upwards, resident at the time in the ward. The property qualification of town voters*may consist partly of freehold and partly of leasehold." 
In villages it is £3 and upwards, with freehold or leasehold ; in 
h regl elections, and relating to electors, are not in the-tjwo Canadas; but colored persons are not affected by "MoMe tha",others. 
Caadian Alnaiae f or 1852. 
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 27 
"'No pers~ shall be entitled to vote at county elections, who bas not ve him, by legal title, real property in said county of the value of forty-four shillings and five pence and one far g, cu-rency. Title to be in fee simple or freehold under tenure of free.and common soccage, or in•fief in rature, or infranc allen, or de rived from thé Governor and Council of the late Province of Quebec, or Act of Parliament.' Qualificatiori, to be effective, requires actual and uninterrupted possession on the parb of the elector, or that he 
should have been in receipt of the rents and profits of said property for his own. use and benefit at least six months before the date of the writ of election. But the title will be good without such anteriorpos session, if the property shall have come by inheritance, devise, mNar# riage or contract of marriage, and also if the deed or patent from the Crown on which he holds to claim such eÏtate in Upper Canada"have been registeree'tbree calendar months before the date of the writ of 
election. In Lower Canada, possession of the property under a writ ten promise of sale registered, if not a notarial deed, for twelve months before the election, to be sufficient title to vote. In Upper Canada, a conveyance to wife after marriage must have been registered three calendar months, or husband have been in possession of property six months before election." 
"Only British subjects of the full age of twenty-one are allowed to vote. Electors may remove objection by producing certificate, or by taking the oath." 
These contain ne prescriptive provisions, and there are none. Colk ored men comply with these provisions.and vote in the 9dminiti of affaira.. There is no difference made whatever ; and eyen i the slight mater-Qf taking the census it is impossible to get at the èxact number of ~white or colored, as they are not designated as-such There is, it is true, petty jealousy uanifested at times by indiiriduals, which is made use of by the designing; but impartiality and &igi justice characterise proceedings at law, and the bearing of. the lpr The oath, as prescribed by law, is as follows: 
"1, A. B., do sincerely promise and 4wear; that I íil bearf ful and true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, as a
28 NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
Sovereign of the United Kingdon of Great Britian antIreland, and of this Province of Canada, dependent on and belongin the said United Kingdom, and that I will defend ber to the ut power against all traitors, conspiracies and attempts whatever wh shall be made against Her Person, Crown and Dignity, and that I will do my utmost endeavor to disclose and make known to Her Majesty, Her Heirs and Successors all treasons and traitorous con spiracies and attempts which I shall know to be against Her or any of them, and all this I do swear without any equivocation, mental evasion, or secret reservation, and ,renouncing all pardons and dispen sations from persons whatever, to the contrary. So help me God." 
"The Deputy Returning Officer may administer oath of allegiance to persons who, according to provisions of any Act of Parliament, shall become, on taking such oath, entitled to the privileges of British birth in the Province." 
«'WPersons knowing themselves not to be qualified, voting at elec- 'tions, incur penalty of £10 ; and on action broùht, the burden of proof shall be on the defendant. 'Such votes null and void." 
"The qualifications of Municipal Councillors are as follows Township Councillor must be a freeholder or householder of the township or ward, * * * as proprietor or tenant rated on the roll, in case of a freeholder for £100 or upwards ; householder for £200 or upwards: Village Councillor, in case of a freeholder, for £10 or upwards; a householder for £20 and upwards: Town Councilloi-, in case of a freeholder £20 per annum ; if a bouseholder 
thamoujit b of £40 and upwards. The property qualification of 'Town Conneillors may be partly freehold and partly leasehold." A'tenant voter in town or city must have occupied actial resi dee,'-as a separate tenant, a dwelling bouse or housés for twelve mniths, of the yearly value of £11 2s. ld. currency, and haye paid syer's rent, or that amount of money for the twelve months imme dttely preceding the date of election ivrit. A person holding only a shop or place of business, but not actually residing therein, is not e d to vote. And a voter having changed bis residence within, duing the yeêir, does not affect his right to vote, but must vot4jp thè:ward iwwhich h iresides on the day. . R
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
ARTICLES EXEMPT FROM DUTY. 
The fo g are some of the articles exempt from duty on impor 
o e s of machinery and other inventions and improvements in the arts. Horses and carriages of travelers; and horses, cattle and carriages and other vehicles when employéd in carrying merchandize, together with the necessary harness and tackle, so long as the same. 
shall be bona fide in use for that purpose, except the horses, cattie, carnages and harness of persons hawking goods, wares and merchan dize through the Province for the purpose of retailing the same, and the horses, cattle, carriages and harness of any circus or equestrian troop for exhibitién; the horses, cattle, carriages and harness of any to be free." 
"Donations of clothing specially imported for the use of or to be distributed gratuitously by any charitable society in this Province." . " Seeds of all kinds, farming utensils and implements of husbandry, when specially imported in good fhith by any society incorporated or established for the encouragement of agriculture." 
"Wearing apparel in actual use, and other personal effects not merèhandize ; horses and cattle ; implements and tools of trade of handicraftsmen." 
' " Trees, shrubs, bulbs and roots; wheat and indian corn ; animals specially imported for the improvement of stock; paintings, drawings, maps, busts, printed books, (not foreign reprints of British copy-right works,) ashes, pot and pearl, and soda." 
CURRENCY OF' CANADA. 
GOLD. CURRENCY. 
The British Sovereign when of full weight, £1 4s 4d. U. S. Eagle, coined before 1st'July 1834, £1 133 4d U. S. Eagle, between lst of July, 1834, and 1st of July 
1851, £2 los Od SILVER. SILVER. 
Br tish Crown, -s id Other eighth silver dollar, Os 4d H If crgwn, 3 O U. S. sixteenth dollar, O 3.1 Shi ing, 1 2 Other "- " + 3 Sixp nce, O I7 Five franc piece, 4 8 The lar, 5 i COPPER. Half 2 6 , British penny, 
U. S. qulrter dollar, I 3 - half penny, - Other " " 1 0 farthing, 
U. S. eighth " O 7
30 NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
*ABSTRACT OF.LAW OF SUCCESSION IN UPPE NADA. "Be it therefore enacted, &c., That w r, on or after the first day of January, which will be in the ye one thousand eight hundred and fifty-two, any person shall die sieze in fee simple or for the life of another of any real estate in Upper Can. ada, without having lawfully devised the same, such real estate shall descend or pass by way of succession in manner following, that is to say: 
Firstly-To his lineal descendants, and those claiming by or under them,per stirpes. 
Secondly-To his father. 
Thirdly-To his mother : and 
Fourthly-To his collateral relatives. 
Subjeçt in all cases to the rules and regulations hereinafter pre scribed. 
2. "That if the intestate shall leave several descendants in the direct line of lineal descent, and all of equal degree of consanguinity to such intestate, the inheritance shall descend to such persons in equal parts, however remot e fromi the intestate the common degree of 
consanguinity may be. 
3. " That if any of the children of such intestate be living, and any be dèad, the inheritance shall descend.to the children who are living, apd to the descendants of such children as shall have died, so that each child who shall be living shall inherit such share as would have descended to him if all the children of the intestate who "shall have -diedleaving isAue, had been living, and so that the descendants of each child who shall be dead shall inherit the share which their pa rents would have received, if living, in equal shares. 
"18. That children and relatives who are illegitimate shall not be entitledto'inherit under any of the provisions of this Act." 
THE THIRTY THOUSAND COLORED FREEMEN OF CANADA. 
The culore4 subjects of her Majesty in the Canadas are, in the ,in good aircumstance that is, there are few cases opositive 
d 15 Vic. Cap. 6-485L $eobie.
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 31 
destitution found among those permanently settled. They are e~tt1uously in cities, towns, villages, and the farming dis equal number of colored men in the States, north or south, can produce more freeholders. They are settled on, and own portions of the best farming lands in the province, and own much val uable property in the several cities, etc. There is, of course, a differ. ence in the relative prosperity and deportment in different sections, but siect for, and observance of the laws, is conceded to them by all ;\indeed, indifference on the part of whites has given place 
to gexilne sympathy, and the active abolitionists and liberal men of the county, look upon that element in their character as affording ground forope of a bright future for them, and. as evidence that their sympathy for th1free man is not misplaced, as more than compensa tion for their own exertions for those yet in bonds. I have sail, there is but little actual poverty among them. They are engaged in the different trades and other manual occupations.' They have a paper conducted by jhe Rev. Henry Bibb, and other able men, white and colored, are laboring among them, and in view of the protection afford ed, there is no good reason why they should not prosper. After the 
passage of the fugitive law, the sudden emigration of several thou sand in a few months, destitute as they necessarily were, froin having, in many instances, to leave behind them all they possessed, made not a little suffering for a brief period, (only among them,) and the report of their condition had an injurious bearing upon all the colored set tiers. Clothing, provisions, and other articles were sent them, but often so disposed of, or appropriated, as not to benefit those for whom intended. - Distrust of agents, indiscriniinately, and altogether but 
little real good has followed from the charity. The sensible men among them, seeing the bad results from a general character for por erty and degradation, have not been slow- to exp;ess their disappro bation in the sociàcircle, in meetings, and through the public papers The following extracts express fully the4êeltiments of nine-tenths ôf 
the colored men of Canada; they thinkethey are fully able tuIive without begging. There are othes 4 Worant people, whoA 4 f; .f
32 NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
differently, as there will be in all coununities, though:tbey are in the minority. There are those, also, and they are a respect4ble minority, (in point of numbers;) who are in favor of distirctiye L schools, and of being entirely to themselves ; they will come in frr especial notice, but first, let us hear the people of Buxton and other places : 
"If facts would bear out the stateaents made, the fugitives wouId have little to choose between slavery on one side of the line, and starvation on the other; but we rejoice that he is not reduced to the alternative. The man who is willing to work need not suffer, and unless a man supports himself hý will neither be independent nor re spectable in any·coun.try." * * * "The cry that has been often raised, that we could not support ourselves, is a foul slander, got up, 
by our enemies, and circulated both on this and the other side of the line, o.our prejudice. Having lived many years in Canada, we hesi tate not.to say that all who are able and willing to work, can make a good living." * * * It is time the truth should be known con cerning the relief that has been sent to the "suffering fugitives in Canada," and to what extent it has been applied. The boxes of clothing and barrels of provisions which have been sent in, from time' to time, by the praiseworthy, but misguided zeal of friends in the Uni ted States, has been employed to suppoit the idle, who are too lazy to work, and who form but a small portion of the colored population in Canada.. There are upwards of thirty thousand colored persons in Canada West, and ndt more than three thousand of them have ever received Mi, and not more than half of them required it had they been willing to work. We do not think it right that twenty-seven thousand colored persons, who are suppoi-ting themselves by their own industry, should lie under the disgrace of being called public beggais, when they recéive nothing, and don't want anything. . 
Wu -wish the people of the United $tates to knrow that there is one portien of Canada West w&e the colored people are self-supporting, d ihey wish themu to indneèither petticôat nor pantaloons to the cedjy of Kent. he few cases of real want which arise
NOTES QF CANADA WEST. 
33
from sickness or old age, can, with a trifling effort, be relieved here, without maLng it a pretext for a system of wholesale begging in the UnitedßStates."-EDWARD R. GRANTS, 
SAMUEL WICKHAM, Cornmittee. 
ROBERT HARRIS. 
"As to the state of things in Toronto and in Hamilton, I can say, from actual observation, that extreme suffering is scarcely known among the black people, while some who are far from being as indus trio us and deserving as they ought to be, receive aid to which they, 
would hardly seem entitled."-S. R. Ward's Letter to the Voie of th Fugitive. 
Notwithstanding the prosperity and liberal sentiment of the ma. jo.rity, there is yet a great deal of ignorance, bigotry, prejudice, and idleness. There are those who are only interested in education 8m far as the establishment of separate schools, churches, &c., tend to make broad the line of separation they wish to maké between them and the whites ; and they are active to increase their numbers, and to perpetuate, in the minds of the newly arrive:l emigrant or refugee, prejudices, originating in slavery, and as stron-g and objectionable in their manifestations as those entertained by whites towards them. Ev ery casual remark by whites is tortured into a decided and effective negro hate. The expressions of an individual are made to infer the existence of prejudice on the part of the whites, and partiality by the administrators of public affairs- The recently arrived fugitives, un acquainted with the true state of things, is "completely cominced by the noisy philippic against all the "white folks," and all colored .nes who think differently from them, ad he is thus prepared to nid dem agogues in preventing the adoption of proper measures for the apread of education and -generals intelligence, to maintain an -ascondency over the inferior minds around them, and to make the way of the missionary a path of thorns. Among thaf portion, generally,mnay those be found, who by their indolent habits, tend to give ping to what of prejudice is lingering in the minds a the whiteà ; ad it is to be feared that they may take some misguided step now,,theoni sequences of which will entail evil on the.many who wil hercatew 
34 NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
settle in Canada. The only ground of hope is in the native good sense of those who are now making use of the same iahtrumentali ties for improvement as are the whites around them. 
THE FRENCH AND FOREIGN POPULATION. 
The population of Canada consists of English, Scotch, French, Irish and Americans ; and', including colored persons, numbers about 1,482,000. Of the whites, the French are in the majority, but the in creasing emigration of Irish, Scotch, English and other Europeans, is fast bringing about an equality in point of numbers that will be felt in political. circles. In Canada West the French are in the minority. 
-The diàposition.of the peopl- generally towards colored emigrants, that:isso far as the opinions of old settlers may be taken, and my own·observation may be allowed, is as friendly as could be looked for underthe circumstances. The Yankees, in the country and in the States adjoining, leave no opportunity unimproved to embitter their mirids against them. The result is, in some sections, a contemptible sort-of prejudice, which, among English, is powerless beyond the in dividual entertaining it=-not even affecting his circle. This grows out of the constitution of English society, in wkich people are not obliged tohink as others do. There is more independent thought and free esression than among Americans. The affinity between the Yan keès-,and French is strong; said to griow out of simnilar intentions with'. 
repect to pol1itekl affairs: and they express most hostility, but it is not 'of-a compleiËonal .character only, as that serves as a mark to identifymen of a different policy. Leaving out Yankees-having but 1itt1epracticaplerience of colored people-they, (the French,) are pre-disposed,fromthe influence alluded to, to deal roughly with them; butin the main benevolenée and a sense of justice are elements in their*character. They are not averse to truth. There is a prevailing hSlity to-chattel slavery,and an honest gresentation ofthe coloretd p~eope :. their aims and progressive character, backed by uniform 
ôgoudnduct on their partwdu1d in a very short time aestroy every bE.rejudice in the erwince.* 
pi ç mind 4liter thiAs for tbe truth, and honest listen-
NOTES OF' CANADA WEST. 
M$
ers, and anxiops inquirers will travel many miles, crowd our country chapels, al remain for hours eagerly and patiently seeking the light. * Let the ignorance now prevalent on the subject of slaveiy be met by fair and full discussion, and open and thorough in. vestigation, and the apathy and prejudice now existing will soon dis appear."-S. R. Ward.   
Colored persons have been refused entertainment in taverns, (inva riably of an inferior class,) and on some boats distinction is made; but in all cases, it is that kind of distinction that is made between poor foreigners and other passengers, on the cars and steamboats of. the 
Nbrthern States. There are the'emigrant train and the-forward deck in the United States. In Canada, colored persons, holding the same relation to the Canadians, are in some cases treated similarly. Itais an easy xfatter to make out a case of prejudice in any country. We naturally look for it, and the conduct of many is calculated te cause unpleasant treatment, and to make it difficult for well-mannered persons to get comfortable accommodations. There is a.mediumber tween servility and presumption, that recommends itself to all per sons of common sense, of whatever rankt, or complexion; and if 
colored people would avoid the two extremes, there would be but few cases of prejudices to complain of in Canada. In cases in which tavern keepers and otlier public characters persist in refusing te entertain them, they can, in common with the traveling public generally, get redress at law. 
Persons emigrating to Canada, need not hope to flmd the-general state of society as it is in the States. There is as in the old country a strong class feeling-lines are as completely drawn between th different classes, and aristocracy in the Canadas is the same n rts 
manifestations as aristocracy in England, Scotland and elsew er There is no approacli te Southern chivalry, nor the sensitivede racy prevalent at the North; but there is an aristocracy of birt½, of skin, as with Americans. In the ordinary arrangements.of from wealthy and titled immig ants m4. visitors from country, down through the intenneditaÏ circles te Yankees dians, it appears to have been sttI by common con 4n, 
36 NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
clasm should not "see any trouble over another ;" but. the conmnon ground on which all honest and respectable men meli, is that of innate hatred of American Slavery. 
RECAPITULATION. 
The conclusion arrived at in respect to Canada, by an'impartial petson, is, that no settled country in America offers stronger induce mets to colored people. The climate is healthy, and théy enjoy as good health as other settlers, or as the natives; the soil is of the 
=rt quality ; the laws of the country give to them, at first, the same protection and privileges as to other persons not born subjects; and after compliance with Acts of Parliament affecting them, as taking 0at, &c., they may enjoy full " privileges of British birth in the Province." The general tone of society is healthy; vice is discoun ienateed, and infractions of the law promptly punished ; and, added to this, there is an increasing anti-slavery sentiment, and a pro. grssive system of religion. 
THE BRITISH WEST INDIES-MEXICO-SOUTH AMERICA-AFRICA. 
Ifducements have been held out by planters to colored men, to 1te in the British West Indies, and agents have been sent particu larly from Jamaica and Trinidad, from time to time, to confer with thhon the subject. The most prominent feature in their efforts, has bir the dirèct advantage to the planter from such emigration. The 
dvioita to be derired by settlers, in a pecuniary point, from any systein of e.ngratioi originating with proprietors of estates, will be au long-as the present mode of plating, managing and in estatea,- continues, if the emigrants consent to be mere labor of owners of the soil. But from a system of voluntary t thoe islands, diferent results may be looked for. The id wodd-tit deglÉe them, the latter materially elevate eitinity of thdsø iads 'to thé southern United tates d5lTsary that they ~ be peopled by colored men, and 
I
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 37
u7nder Britsk protection; in short, that they should be British sub. jeets., Theolicy of the dominant party in the United States, is to dàie>sge colored people out of the country, and to send them to Afri ca, ôùly, and at the some time, to give the fullest guaranty to slave holders, for the continuance of their system. To fulfil, to the letter, this latter, they make large calculations of a future interest in the West Indies, Honduras, and ultimately South America. They wish to consecrate to slavery and the slave power that portion of this continent ; at the same time they deprecate the vicinity of freemen. 
To preserve those countries from the ravages of slavery, should be the motive to their settlement by colored men. Jamaica, with its fine climate and rich soil, is the key to the gulf of Mexico. It js not distant from the United States, Cuba, nor Hayti; but, as if pro. videntially, is just so positioned that, if properly garrisoned by col ored free men, may,.under Britain, promptly and eff'etually check "foreign interference in its own policy, and any mischievous designs now in contemplation toward Cuba and Hayti. So of that portion of the Isthmus now under the protection of Great Britain. In view 
of the ultimate destiny of the southern polftion of North America, it is of the first importance that colored men strengthen that and similar positions in that region. They- are the natural protectors of the Isthmus and the contiguous eduntry: it is said by medical Men, that those of the human family, physically* capable of resisting th0 influences of great heat, are also capable of enduring severe cocidi and the varied experience of colored persons in America, proves that they live to as great age as whiter, whether as whalemen in the northern seas, and settlers inthe British provinces, (far north of the United States,) or in the West Indies. The question of availabMii_ 
bty, can never be raised, for at this time there are those who cond with great ability the business of the Islands. Colored meù, greatly in the majority, not more than one-sixth are whiteâ. are legislators, lawyers, physicians, ministers, planter, eie chants, and laborers ; and they demoneiat'e clearly for self-government, and the 'var artments 
the great c* ge in thei- condiemancip 
38 NOTES OF CANADA wEST. 
of loss from the emancipation act, is a gross misrepresentation, got ten up by interested parties for the benefit of slavery. True 4here may not be so much exported as formerly, for the very#,goodpeaggn that there are more purchasers at home. The miserably fei' shve of former days, is now the independentfree man, with the ability to buy whatever his judgment prompts him to. Neither is the demand for laborers for large estates evidence that the peasantry are idle. There are more small farmers and cultivators on their own account, more store-keepers and traders, and they of the emancipated class. More attention is, of course, paid to education, and the children are thus relieved, in a measure, frorn out door duties. Much has been done by the colored people of those islands to improve their condition, and much more may be done conjointly with emigrants from the States, to perfect society, strengthen the British in that quarter, and thus keep up "the balance of power." It needs no 
prophet to foretell the establishment of an empire formed out of the southern United States and Mexico. The settlement by colored peple of those countries, with their fiany sympathizers, is but a preparatory step: that step has been taken, slavery and republican rapacity will do the rest. Under what more favoràble auspices could emigration to the West Indies be made than the present, now that a general welcome would be extended by the people to those who would like a milder climate than the States? What govemment so powerful and so thoroughly impartial, as Her Majesty's ; so prac 
tically anti-slavery, and so protective? None. The objectiog that "we wish our own~government, to demonstrate our capacity for self government, is done away with at once, for there are colonies con trolled, so far as their immediate affairs extend, by colored men. 
e asserdon that white men universally degrade colored, is disW by the facts. There is no aristocracy of skin; every e to honorable effort is kept before them. It is of the first 
ce, then, that the government of those islands should be afrti and that only governments, anti-slavery in spirit and tenden dawvng a liberal rejigious policy, should be sought out by le from-the Unied St4es. They, of all othérs on this
NOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
contineit;ve drank plentifully of the cup of degradation, made noïe:bittéÇfrom the never ending parade about- freedom. They auboeiêVerful auxiliaries of the present inhabitants, in forming 
a~wâ11 of defense, or available for offensive operations, as a decided protest, for instance, as the best interests and policy of the British government might demand. Those who oppose emigration froma-the - United States, say, "you (colored people,) will not desire to be the laborers in other countr*es; to dig the canals, work on rail roads, ditch, and the like, but you will prefer tg engage in trade, and that others will forestall you." Men who are honest in their desire for a change, who love liberty better than slavery, or who are unwil. ling to await the tedious. process by which, in -the United States, 
their rights will be given, if ever, will not be fastidious on emigra. ting to a country. Emigrants to any country, who shoulil aim at a monopoly of the so called respectable occupations, exclusively, would be looked upon with distrust, as well as contempt, and the 
result to the emigrant would not be far different from a monopoly of menial employments. There will be no scarcity of land, and a me dium, between the extensive operations of capitalists, and the de grading occupations of colored people, generally, in the crowded cities of the United States, thus.opens to themi a certain road to fu ture eminence, in every way preferable to the sudden changes and chances of trade, exclusively. 
Allusion is at times made to South America, and plans for a grant of territory from governments in that country, in which to form ani "in dependent government," have been proposed. Otherà say, "unite with existing governments." Neither plan can recoimend itself to prospective emigrants generally. In the first place, there is no ps 
cedent on record of a grant, similar to the one sought, and the po cy of iridependent governments, with respect to each other always be opposed to unqualified grants. The great o uniting with those governments.at present, would be-their toleirition in matters of religion; solong as the ittimate ôf tihe State with the Romish Ohurch exists, those couan býa poor asylum for the oppr ssedà The liberals,
40 KOTES OF CANADA WEST. 
a minorty, struggling for life against the exactions of popery, and the ambition of military chiefs. Would colored membe pared to adopt the religion of the country? That with them tl only Suaranty of protection, such "Frotection as vultures €gw< lambs." "Let us seize upon Africa, or some other, unapprepriated terri while we may,"say others, "and establish our own governments." But Africa has already been seized upon ; the English, French, Portuguese, Spanish and Turks, have long since shared her olit among themselves, and little Liberia may yet revert to some heir-at-law, who has purposely been unmindful of her. There is yet Mexico, to be spoken of here after, and a southern continent, but that belongs-to the United States, it may be by right of discovery ; so there seems to be no safe alterna tive left but to be satisfied with that government now existing that is most reliable and most powerful. That government is Great Brit ain ; her dependencies form a secure home for the American slave, and the disgracedfree man. The last of her possessions to which I shall call attention in this place, is Vancouver's Island. 
MEXICO. 
The vicinity of Mexico to the Unitedi States, and the known hos tility of Mexicans to the institution of slavery, weigh strongly with tome persons in favor of emigration to that country ; but on careful consideration, it will berseen that that country does not present the features, in the main, that the States of South America do. The hankering of the old Castilians after lost power, is much greater in Mexico than farther south ; and to regain that there would not be scruples about a coalition with American Slaveholders, even. The sp;iat of democracy has never so thoroughly pervaded that country, 
othse under the shadow of Simon Bolivar. Mexico was called ,,Spain. In her was remodelled the prominent features of Span icy in Europe. There was the grand centre point of Spanishl religious intolerance, and regal domination, for the New Irh~ Sta p~ of South America, a change of policy was a growing ofthe relations of the Church of Roei to r was aneamest demand of.thejna-
NOTES OF CANADA WEsT. 41 
jority to *AWw ff the Spanish yoke. This is shown in the relative Church in those countries. In Mexico the Roman 
ch is in undisputed supremacy, and the Pope is to e timatum.- In the tates of South Amenca, though that religion prevails, yet concession has been made, by Rome, in the person of a dignitary of equal powers there with the Pope elsewhere. With them the Pope is but little more respected than the Greek Patriarch. In those States, except Peru, (in which there is but one idea generally among Natives and Spanish,) there was no pre viously-civilized class, continually brooding over Spanish wrongs: the natives came to terms, and tlrey and Creoles combined to de stroy Spanish tyranny backed by Rome ; consequently, after victory 
over Spain was achieved by them, their remaining enemy was andia the Church in its modified form. It yet has, as before said, sùti cient influence to make those countries undesirable for colored people from the United States in the present phase of things. - We want a strong positiori ; Mexico does not offer that, even though the majority are anti-slavery. The Southern United States have " marked her for their prey," which she will be for a time ; and combining with the minority, the probability is a contest for the su premacy of slavery for a long time.- If it were certain that slavery would not- be tolerated 'but for a short period, still the move would. be inexpedient, as direct contact with revolutionary movements, oit other plans of progress, in her present state affecting it, would. be inevitable. The position of colored Americans must be a conserva.AV, 
tive one, for a time, in any foreign countiy, (from the very nature "e. their relations to foreign nations,) as well as for themselves in thwe United States ; and it were folly-in thèm to voluntarily enter the 
·breach between any two hostile nations until stronger in positon.;< their efforts, to be rational, should be to gain strength. PeopI love liberty do not emigrate to weak governments to embroil selves in their qurre1s with stronger ones, but to strong oneaa4 to ther strength and better their own condition, and oreigners for o*ers, are, generally, either -hireÙng, oz isolatledd »"tiing after fame. Whatever peopleg¥4s Mex i4e
42 ~ NOTES 0F CANADA WEST. 
institutions, must calculate before hand, to set aside the-hits of independent civil life-must for a long time repudiatime ough the arte, and trade, with their concomitants, in a grea make them but secondary in importance to the, there, paramtùnt idea of military life, and the certainty of frequent attacks from abroad and at home. The weakness, or rather the internal feuds of Mexico, invite attack from unscrupulous parties, is it meet then that emigrants of any nation should make haste to " settle there ?" We look in vain for the precedent of emigration to a country, -distracted even to bloodshed, with internal feuds, by any people; and we may look in vain for prosperity. In advocating this, we would leave out of sight, the check that a fortifying of the West Indies with our emi grants would give to depredations on the ,contiguous countries, and only gratify the love to fight, without immediate advantage. Let Mexicoat present, take care of herself, by the effortsof her own mixed population rightly directed, and let our emigrants so abolitionize and strenlgthen neighboring positions as to promôte the prosperity and harmony of the whole. This can be done without compromising away honor, in fact, the sentiment "liberty or death," is never realizel but by se proceeding as to secure the first permanently, and only courting the latterwhen life is no longer of utility. I know that the recollection of innumerable wrongs, makes the desire for payment in 'like coin the necessity of some men's natures, but no real end is attained after a1l: the Indians have learned sense from frequent defeat, the con sequence 6f going to war before they ivere prepared, and whole tribes -now-cultivate the ars of peace and progress. Let us learn even- of. savages! We can get up a - fight at any time, but who is- the wiser for the sight ? No one, honest- men *wuld but try to suppress -it; so would a coalition with any nation, à,'nd especially a weak one, to carry out -retaliatory measures, result. 
The pro-slavery party of the Unitéd- States is the -aggressive party ieontinent. It is the serpent that aims to swaiow1dl others. tVir te mke- strongholds, and, -if ineed be, defid them; il tli n eeetive- checr to.reediness- of -land and
NOTES Or CÂANDA WEST. 43 
VÂAQ5N ER'S ISLAND-CONCLUDING REMARKS. 
is situated between 490 and 51 © north latitude, or 
o thern boundary of British America; and between 122 * and 127 O west longitude. It is about three hundred miles longi and between ninety and one hundred miles broad, and contains about twenty-eight thousand square miles. Though remotely situated, 
and comparatively uninhabited, (there being not more than twenty' thousand persons on it,) it will, it is' said, be the first island -in im-ý portance on the globe. - It has a fine climate, being in the same lat- Î itude as the south of England, Germany, and the north of France: the soil is also of the best description. But it is not as an agricul-7 tural island that it-will surpass all others. The Western 0ontinent; and particularly the northem part, say " wise men of the -east," must eventuatly leave the eastern far in the distance, (a fact that should -not be lost sight of by colored men,) and that over the Pacifc will the trade with eastern nations be prosecuted. It is importan now as a stopping place for whale ships-visiting the Northern Seas and is directly in the route to the East Indies, Japan Isles, and China, from Oregon and British America. Theoverland route sto the Pacific terminating near that point, the great Atlantic tuade Western Europe and America will find there-the most practicabe outlet and the shortest distance to Eastern.Asia ; conseque tly the people there settled, of whatever complexion, will be the "im.hati princes of the world," and under the protection of Great Britain. Now, there are two weighty reasons w;hy the people settled thed' should be colered principally; the first, because by, thatëarthe would become more fully involved in the destiny -of ·thisEi'tiùent any eastern move of magnitude, as for instance-to- Afica; if-xo4eItéd wouldappear-a retrograde step,-now that'the current of f aaffiriÉse clearly iettingwest: and, secendly, ne ma môre:efchuibayl a check be given to the enciochme&ts of slaver*oxr ûepóié: 'î purely elsympathyfo:'ih in. iy egld rience ammistakbl 4btmeeolita fr6e idrê,4ii
'- -~~# 
44 
NOTES OF CANADA WEST.
It *ill be seen, that the possibility of a pretty extensive emigration 
io those countries has been the prominent feature throughout this tract, and for that reason direct 'reference has been made to other points, under British jurisdiction, than Canada. The preference given to these, (Canada, West Indies, and Vancouver's Island,) over British Colonies elsewhere, has been because of their strong position and availability in every way. There would not be as in Africa, Mexico, or South America, hostile tribes to annoy the settler, or de- .stroy at will towns and villages with their inhabitants : the strong arm of British power would summarily punish depredations made, of whatever character, and the emigrants would naturally assume the responsibility of British freemen. 
The question whether or not an extensive emigration by the free colored people of the United States would affect the institution of slavery, would then be answered. I have here taken the affirmative of that question, because that view of the case seems to me most clear. The free colored people have steadily discountenanced any rational scheme of emigration, in the hope that by remaining in the States, a powerful miracle for the overthrow of 'slavery would be wrought. What are the facts. More territory has been given up to slavery, the Fugitive Law has passed, and a concert of measures, se riously affecting their personal liberty, has been entered into by several of the Free states; so subtle, unseen and-effective have been their mc>ements, that, were it not that we remember there is a Great IÉritain, we would be overwhehned, powerless, from the force of such successive shocks ; and the end may not be yet, if we persist in remaining for targets, while they are strengthening themselves in the Northwest, and in the Gulf. There would be more of the right spirit, and infinitely more of real manliness, in a peaceful but de cided demand for freedom to the slave from the Gulf of Mexico, than in.a miserable scampering from state to state, in a vain endeavor to 8&$her the crumbs of freedom that a pro-slavery besom may sweep 
at any moment. May a selection for the best be made, now are ere countries between which and the United States a com may be instituted. A little folding of the hands, and there retsrat -misà 0ote slve power.</root>
